feat(changelog): Add changelog preview action and CLI command (#669)
getsentry/craft: docs/src/content/docs/github-actions.md

---
title: GitHub Actions
description: Automate releases and changelog previews with Craft GitHub Actions
---

Craft provides GitHub Actions for automating releases and previewing changelog entries in pull requests.

## Prepare Release Action

> The main Craft action automates the `craft prepare` workflow in GitHub Actions. It creates a release branch, updates the changelog, and opens a publish request issue.

Author: You may want to refer to getsentry/publish repo as an example since we intend this repo to be useful to everyone, including people not working at Sentry.

permissions:
  pull-requests: write

jobs:
  preview:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
        with:
          fetch-depth: 0
      - uses: getsentry/craft/changelog-preview@v2
        env:
          GITHUB_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.GITHUB_TOKEN }}
```

### How It Works

1. **Generates the changelog** - Runs `craft changelog` to generate the upcoming changelog including all commits since the last tag
2. **Highlights PR entries** - Entries from the current PR are rendered with blockquote style (displayed with a left border in GitHub)
3. **Posts a comment** - Creates or updates a comment on the PR with the changelog preview
4. **Auto-updates** - The comment is automatically updated when new commits are pushed to the PR

### Example Comment

The action posts a comment like this:

```markdown
## 📋 Changelog Preview

This is how your changes will appear in the changelog.
Entries from this PR are highlighted with a left border (blockquote style).

---

### New Features ✨

> - feat(api): Add new endpoint by @you in #123

- feat(core): Existing feature by @other in #100

### Bug Fixes 🐛

- fix(ui): Resolve crash by @other in #99

---

> 🤖 This preview updates automatically when you push changes.

Author: ```suggestion
🤖 This preview updates automatically when you update the PR.
```

```

### Requirements

- The workflow needs `pull-requests: write` permission to post comments
- The repository should have a git history with tags for the changelog to be meaningful
- Use `fetch-depth: 0` in the checkout action to get full history

## Tips

### Combining Both Actions

You can use both actions together for a complete release workflow:

```yaml
# .github/workflows/changelog-preview.yml
name: Changelog Preview
on:
  pull_request:

>     types: [opened, synchronize, reopened]

Author: Same as above: make sure we cover all cases such as label changes, editing title or description etc.
